# Minutes for July 2018 Lesson Infrastructure committee meeting

## When?

July 25th, 2018 -- 3pm UTC -- https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Infrastructure+Subcommittee+meeting&iso=20180725T15

## Attendees

* Kate Hertweck
* Maxim Belkin
* Sarah Brown
* Tracy Teal
* François Michonneau


Apologies: 

* Rémi Emonet
* Raniere Silva
* Naupaka Zimmerman

## Agenda

* We will soon publish a blog post outlining our vision for Curriculum
  Development with The Carpentries. To focus efforts towards polishing and
  implementing this vision (part of the Sloan Foundation grant) and to start
  working on the lesson template (part of the R Consortium grant), we will limit
  implementation of new features and focus on streamlining maintenance and
  fixing bugs on the current lesson template.
  
* As part of effort to streamline maintenance, François proposes to re-evaluate
  the use of remote themes for our lessons. It will make it easier to update the
  template and all updates will quickly be propagated across all the lesson
  repositories.
  
  Things to consider, advantages and disadvantages:
  - Does using remote themes allow for local rendering?
    * yes, but need to use bundler (not in use for all lessons), but already proposed (https://github.com/carpentries/lesson-infrastructure/issues/7).
    * François will test how it works for offline use.
 - Can we have a `_data` folder in theme repository which would allow us to
   share variables across most of our repositories, and reduce the content of
   `_config.yml` to only variables that need to be customized in the repository.
   A possible alternative would be to use the [`jekyll-data` plugin](https://github.com/ashmaroli/jekyll-data),
   that allows to have one `_config.yml` file in the remote theme repository and
   one in the lesson repository. If neither of these solutions are viable,
   should we create a repository just to host the `_data` folder which could be
   set as a remote across our lesson repositories?
 - Where do the `bin` folder and the `Makefile` go? in its repository? can they
   be part of the theme?
 - Using remote themes might make easier to maintain for different languages,
   and for accessibility (large fonts, high-contrast, etc.)
 - Using remote themes would also make it easier to distinguish lesson
   contributors and contributors to template and would clarify authorship.
   
Tracy proposes we scope out the work that needs to be done to implement this as
a proposal that we can discuss at the next meeting, and that we can test on a
few pilot repositories: the spreadsheet ecology lesson, the python for social
sciences, and maybe at least one R lesson.

* Maxim brought up that it would be useful to include in the lesson why we are using Figshare to host the data for the workshops and what Figshare is.
  - Maxim is opening an issue in the ecology workshop repository
  - Sarah is opening an issue in the social science workshop repository
  
* Discussion around header levels in lessons
  (https://github.com/carpentries/styles/pull/327).
  - Maxim's PR improves the look of the header and could be merged (pending updates requested by Raniere).
  - Larger discussion about whether there should be headers below h2 in the
    lessons. General consensus is that if some are needed then lesson needs to
    refactored into smaller chunks. François will bring this up to the
    Maintainers meeting next month.
    
* Sarah introduces the concept of having challenges as Jekyll collections. This
  would provide us with lots of flexibility in terms of what we can do with the
  challenges (include them in jupyter notebooks, create a page with all the
  challenges, create optional challenges that are not embedded in the lesson,
  etc.). She will open an issue in the committee repository to start a
  discussion on the topic.
