# Minutes for May 2018 Lesson Infrastructure committee meeting

## When?

May 23th, 2018 -- 3pm UTC -- https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Infrastructure+Subcommittee+meeting&iso=20180523T15


## Attendees

* Rémi Emonet
* Tracy Teal
* François Michonneau
* Erin Becker
* Raniere Silva


## Structure and Organization of the subcommittee

To follow the structure and organization of other committees in The Carpentries, the subcommittee reviewed a draft of the [Roles and Responsibilities](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1i93fmo-jXQ49-KM8xHzLQz8HTtwEU_sOXeMtpvr_sdc/edit?usp=sharing). Members of the committee are invited to provide comments and suggestions by the next meeting (currently scheduled for June 27th).

This document captures most of what the committee was already doing. Some of the changes are:
- the meetings will be held monthly (with a proposed date of the 4th Wednesday of the month, at 3 pm UTC).
- it is now stated explicitly that one of the responsibilites of this committee is to provide guidance and feedback on task force implementing projects related to our infrastructure.

Current members of this committee are:
* Rémi Emonet
* Kate Hertweck
* François Michonneau
* Tracy Teal
* Raniere Silva
* Naupaka Zimmerman

Target size for this committee: 6 people, with at most 8 people. François will confirm with people who couldn't make the meeting today that they are still interested in being members.

### Workflow for proposals

In order to ensure that changes suggested by the community or members of the committee get evaluated and implemented in a timely fashion, we proposed to use a system of proposals as described [in this document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ELwTu2gcwFcpKRfgnZId77ACaBteXC_vnL_RaJtCOH8/edit#heading=h.24zmeyh5w3dy).

A challenge with this approach is to find the right balance between the need to document the worflow, evaluate the scope of the work, without making it too difficult to propose or implement changes.

This proposal system also doesn't address the issue of documenting approches that have tested or thought of but not implemented, so members of our community don't propose ideas that have already been tried.

For now, when someone proposes something, 2 LGTM or request for proposal (can be adjusted depending on discussion around the idea) from committee members on the GitHub issue will be enough.


## Projects

### Lesson release process (make a call to assemble task force)

François will start making a draft for the working group and its scope, soon after CarpentryCon

### GitHub labels to use across our lessons

[GitHub issues](https://github.com/carpentries/lesson-infrastructure/issues/1)

The list of proposed labels to use is in our [handbook](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/maintainers/github_labels.html).

* Erin: missing a label "type" about missing content or missing template features
* Ok for everyone in the call
* François will finish the deployment of these labels across all repositories

### Git for Windows

[GitHub issue](https://github.com/carpentries/lesson-infrastructure/issues/5)

All members of the committee agreed to move forward with the change. François will communicate with the community about this change.

### Move common repositories to "Carpentries" GitHub organization

[GitHub issue](https://github.com/carpentries/lesson-infrastructure/issues/13)

François will perform the transfer:
- when transferring repos, make sure the permissions are preserved
- make sure the redirects work (links to xxxx.github.io don't redirect?)
- make sure the release scripts still work (and existing releases will be broken)

### Use of remote themes

[GitHub issues](https://github.com/carpentries/lesson-infrastructure/issues/11)

All for not making a decision at this stage and rather re-evaluating it later

### Use of google search and analytics in template

[GitHub issues](https://github.com/carpentries/lesson-infrastructure/issues/6)

All for not making a decision at this stage and rather re-evaluating it later.

### Keywords and GitHub topics

[GitHub issues](https://github.com/carpentries/lesson-infrastructure/issues/8)

All in favor of sending an email to members of our community to create a task force to come up with guidelines and recommendations for choosing keywords for our lessons and GitHub repositories. François will send this email and get in touch with people who participated in runconf who discuss something similar.
