# Minutes for September 2018 Lesson Infrastructure committee meeting

## When?

September 27th, 2018 -- 3pm UTC

## Attendees

* Sarah Brown
* François Michonneau
* Tracy Teal
* Naupaka Zimmerman

Apologies:

* Rémi Emonet
* Raniere Silva
* Maxim Belkin


## Minutes

### Support for lesson translations

* David's proposal on multiple languages https://carpentries.topicbox.com/groups/discuss/Tdb042c4bc0ecf365/carpentry-lessons-material-in-multiple-spoken-languages

* Example with Spanish and a start to Japanese:
  https://tomkellygenetics.github.io/git-novice/

* We will invite David to join next time, ask additional questions to formulate
  a concise proposal

* This need to be considered in context of other plans, eg remote themes already
  in the works. Ask for an issue on the lesson-infrastructure repo that
  summarizes his proposal/discussions changes based on discussionn with Tom and
  others, and potentially summarize required changes to styles repo

* Questions?:

  - git submodules: how those are used/are they in the same way how we are
    considering to use?

  - What does the workflow for translation look like?

  - Will the current workflow change for lesson maintainers?

  - What are the key technolgical changes needed?

  - How do we start to implement this?

  - How are travis-based builds integrated in this workflow?

* Francois will get in touch with David

### Separating out the exercices

*  Separating out exercises: https://github.com/carpentries/lesson-infrastructure/issues/21

* If we are moving to Travis CI, then we could still have the one lesson, and
  pull out the exercises

* Sarah is putting together a blog post about exercises and asking how people
  use them and what format they would be useful to be in (e.g., slides of
  exercises, reveal slides). Sarah is going to also create an issue about this
  conceptual point, and point discussion from the blog post to that issue


