# Minutes for June 2018 Lesson Infrastructure committee meeting

## When?

June 27th, 2018 -- 3pm UTC -- https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Infrastructure+Subcommittee+meeting&iso=20180627T15

## Attendees

* Rémi Emonet
* Kate Hertweck
* Raniere Silva
* Naupaka Zimmerman

Apologies: Sarah Brown, Tracy Teal


## Committee Updates

### New members

* Sarah Brown will be joining us starting next month as a new member following a
  in-person conversation at CarpentryCon.
* Raniere suggested we include folks who are actively submitting PRs. If number
  of people in committee a concern, some members said they'd be OK with
  stepping-down.
* François to send an email to all current committee members to discuss changes
  to committee membership.
  
### Review roles and responsibility document

* No comments from the committee on document since the last meeting. Leave as is
  for now, and review regularly.
  
## Project Updates

### GitHub labels

[GitHub issue](https://github.com/carpentries/lesson-infrastructure/issues/1)

* All lesson repository now have the standardized set of GitHub Labels as described [in The Carpentries Handbook](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/maintainers/github_labels.html).
* No data on the rate of adoption, but it seems that maintainers use labels more
  than before deployment of standardized labels.
* One issue raised by a maintainer, many issues/PR get labeled "enhancement".
  Does it reflect that this label could be split into more categories, is not
  useful, or that it's the kind of contributions most people make on the
  lessons?
* Revisit labels in a few months (September/October): evaluate the use and fit
  for our needs. GitHub issue kept open to collect feedback from the community
  in the meantime.
  

### Consolidation of tools and templates under Carpentries GitHub organization.

[GitHub issue](https://github.com/carpentries/lesson-infrastructure/issues/13).

* All common resources across The Carpentries are now transitioned to The
  Carpentries GitHub organization.
* This involved a minor release of the lesson template. New process tested where
  a ready-to-merge PR was created against all repositories that maintainers need
  to merge. 
  - How to deal with situations where maintainers are not responsive and the PR
    doesn't get merged?
	* Do we eventually make the decision to merge the PR for them? What is the
      timeline?
	* We need to keep lessons consistent, and updates to template might include
      fixes to broken things.
	* We need a consistent point of contact with maintainers. Is the mailing
      list the best point of contact? Should we also include mentions on GitHub?
	* General consensus: we can merge lesson template releases PRs after a
      couple of weeks if there is no response from the maintainers. This needs
      to be adequately communicated with the maintainers.
  - Rémi will check as time allows whether the swc-release repo scripts get
    broken by this change.
  * Project completed.
  
 
### GitHub topics

[GitHub issue](https://github.com/carpentries/lesson-infrastructure/issues/8)
  
* François sent a request on discuss mailing list to find a volunteer to work on
  this; proposal developed by a community volunteer, Robert Zinna.
* Adding GitHub topics can improve discoverability (within organization and
  throughout GitHub).
* Proposal by Robert:

  All repositories get: carpentries
  
  They also get either:
    * carpentry-lesson
    * carpentry-infrastructure
    
  Carpentry community:
    - software-carpentry
    - data-carpentry
    - library-carpentry
    
  Language taught:
    + R
    + Python
    + Unix
    + SQL
    + Git
    + *other languages, MATLAB, Mercurial, etc*
  
  Skills taught:
    * data-cleaning
    * data-analysis
    * data-visualization
    * programming
    * version-control
    
  Language on the lesson:
    * english
    * spanish
    * *other language*
    
  Repository status:
    * release
    * alpha
    * beta

The Data Carpentry R-ecology would look like: 
carpentries, carpentry-lesson, data-carpentry, ecology, R, data-cleaning, data-analysis, data-visualization, english, release

* Committee agrees that it's a good starting point but without including the
  state fo the repository (e.g. release, alpha, beta), and adding the domain.
  
    Domain (e.g. from Data Carpentry)
    * Ecology
    * Genomics
    * Geospatial
    * Social Sciences
* [added by FM after meeting: we should also consider using "education" and
  "community"].
* We may need to crowd-source the topics for the skills taught for the lessons.
* François will implement this, and figure out a way to ask for input from the
  community about the skills.
  
  ### Update Git for Windows install instructions
  
  [GitHub issue](https://github.com/carpentries/lesson-infrastructure/issues/5)
  
  * Delay in implementation. François will implement soon.
  * Little community-raised issue about nano, so current installation
    instruction might be working OK, or perhaps enough community knowledge is
    filling gap

## New projects to consider

### Update the navigation in the lesson template

[GitHub issue](https://github.com/carpentries/lesson-infrastructure/issues/18)

* navbar: include separate section "for instructors," that includes instructor notes, <dividing line> figures, one page, questions/challenges

* Merge into lesson example before release, then request more feedback

### Switch to a 2-branch system for styles repository

[GitHub issue](https://github.com/carpentries/lesson-infrastructure/issues/16)

* This would increase robustness across branches for files common to multiple
  repositories
* Good to go, but better document for new folks starting lesson from scratch
  (include in README, etc) - make default branch the fill-in version of the
  repo, lack of GitHub documentation is challenging.
  
### Docker image for our lessons

[GitHub issue](https://github.com/carpentries/lesson-infrastructure/issues/19)

* not all necessary software included by default, create our own image that allows lessons to build
* relates to [Travis
  issue](https://github.com/carpentries/lesson-infrastructure/issues/20) (listed
  next on agenda)
* François can implement but input welcome for requirements of Python (Raniere
  can help)
* Include documentation for Docker; have webinar for training and Q&A

### Codeowner file

[Github issue](https://github.com/carpentries/lesson-infrastructure/issues/17)

* Codeowner file: could be useful for ensuring maintainers don't edit template
  files, get notified about changes
* Could help with prioritizing reviews; level of granularity of assignment could
  be useful
* Naupaka will test in own repo

## Other agenda items

* Naupaka asked about whether GitLab is still being considered as an option
* would be a big change for some people, requires additional account creation
  managing community views/expectations on contribution would require change.
* Tracy emailed discuss about problems with MS acquisition of GitHub, only
   little feedback received.
  

